In this video, you'll learn
what does return expression
inside the lambda do,
why it works like that,
and how to safely use
it for your purposes.
Let's start with an example
that sometimes might
be really confusing.
It's a puzzler, so you can expect
something surprising as a result.
The duplicate
non-zero function is
intended to duplicate
all the elements except zero.
The question is, what does
it produce as a result?
You can try to guess
what's going on
and later we'll
discuss the details.
The options are; a list
of list int results,
the same list but flattened
or in other words,
the list of all the non-zero
elements or an empty list.
The right answer here is
an empty list which
is really unexpected.
You can easily write
similar code and
expect this function to
print duplicated
non-zero elements.
Let's see what's going on here.
Returning Kotlin always returns
from a function marked with fun.
That's somthing you may
consider as a rule.
It explains an empty list
here as a result.
When the function
finds zero element,
it returns an empty list but it
returns an empty list
from the whole function.
That's why an empty list is
printed out as a result.
Let's discuss why
it works this way.
Why in Kotlin return returns
from the outer function?
Consider the following example
when you have a regular
for loop and inside this
for loop you use return.
Return simply returns
from the function.
If you convert the
for loop to foreach,
then you kind of expect that
return continue to
behave in the same way.
Return inside foreach returns
from the whole function as well.
In this scenario,
we are glad that
return returns from
the whole function nudge
from the lambda.
That explains the motivation
of why it works like this.
A lot of functions in Kotlin
like foreach behave like
language constructs
and we want to provide
such almost language
construct experience.
What can you do if you need
to return from a lambda?
You can use the labelled
return syntax.
Here, the labeled return will
return from the
corresponding lambda.
By default, you can
use the name of
the function that calls
this lambda as a label.
But if you want, you can specify
any label name put it right
before the lambda
followed by @ sign.
Here we provided
the custom name
just L to label the lambda.
You then use this name
in a labeled return.
Now that duplicate
non zero function
implementation uses labels,
it returns what we expect
The flattened list of
duplicated non zero numbers.
There is another solution
to the same problem.
Instead of lambda, you can use
a local function and
then pass the reference
to this local function.
In this case, return
behaves as expected.
It returns from
the local function
marked with the fun keyboard.
Now, the alternative solution
is to use an anonymous function.
If you don't want to invent
a name for a local function,
you can use an anonymous
function instead.
You can define an anonymous
function in place,
similar to the lambda when
you pass it as an argument.
In essence, it's simply
an alternative syntax
for lambdas.
The under the hood implementation
the compiled bytecode will be the
same for lambda and
an anonymous function,
the only difference
is syntactic.
You can now use a return
which returns from
the anonymous function
marked with the fun keyword.
What's more, you can specify
the return type for
an anonymous function which
is not possible for a lambda.
Sometimes, it's possible
to simply avoid return.
In this case, we use
the result of if instead of
return and we get what
we expect as a result.
One more question to you.
What do you think,
does labeled return
inside foreach correspond to
break or continue
inside for loop?
The right answer is continue.
Breaks stops the for loop
completely while continue
stops only the current iteration
and goes to the next one.
Like continue, returned from
a lambda only stops
the current iteration,
the current lambda, but
doesn't stop the whole loop.
Note that the regular return
doesn't correspond to break.
They are the same only if
the foreach iteration
of for loop
is the last statement
in the function.
Otherwise, they differ in whether
the statement is following
right afterword are called.
Return returns from
the whole function,
while break completes only
the for loop iteration.
There is no direct analogy
to break other than
extracting the for each call
to a separate function.
This explanation of how
to use return inside
lambda completes our discussion
of functional programming so far.
Later in the course,
we'll return to the topic of
operations on collections
and discuss
inlining and the difference
between eager and lazy iteration.
Our next module we'll focus on
object-oriented
programming in Kotlin
which has some small
differences with Java.